>> Richard Feldman: Another thing that
could happen is that we can get some JSON
that has null in it.
That's not a concept in Elm,
Elm doesn't have null, but JavaScript and
by extension JSON absolutely have it.
So how do we handle it when we
receive something like that?
Another question we might have is,
what happens when we have
a field that is optional?
In other words, sometimes it's going
to be present and sometimes it's not.
So here we have a different data
structure that we're decoding into,
a different version of user.
And also some different JSON
that's going to be going into it.
So in this JSON, we have a user ID,
which is an integer, just like before,
we have a name field,
which in this case is null.
And on the Elm side, we say, okay id is
going to be the integer, just like before,
name is maybe going to be a string,
maybe not.
But email is something we
explicitly expect to always be set.
However, it's not present in the JSON,
this JSON does not include an email
address, so how do we handle these things?
Well we start off essentially
the same way as we did before.
We're saying we're going to make a user
that's going to be a Decoder User.
We'll start off with Json.Decode.succeed,
once again, passing in User,
which is going to be
a function that takes an Int.
And this time a Maybe String and then
a String and finally returns a User, so
far, so good, same as before.
The first step we're going to do is
we're going to decode the user_id again,
same as before, because there's no change.
It's present, it's always going to be
present, and it's going to decode directly
from an Int on the JavaScript
side to an Int on the Elm side.
No change there, there is necessarily
going to have to be a change here for
two reasons.
One is, on the name side,
on the JSON side, name is null,
and on the Elm side,
name is a Maybe String.
Fortunately there is a decoder
combinator called nullable.
And so nullable is a function
that takes a decoder and
returns a maybe version of
whatever that thing decodes to.
So just like we saw you could have a list
string which gives you back a decoder of
a list of strings.
You say nullable string,
that takes a decoder string and
gives you back a decoder of maybe string.
And as you might guess, the way that
it decides whether to use a just or
a nothing, depends on whether
the value is either null or not null.
So, in this example,
because name is coming in as null,
that will come in as
nothing on the Elm side.
If on the other hand, name had come in as
a string, that would come in as just and
then the string on the Elm side.
So, an important implication of this is
that we have to say upfront whether or
not we expect null to be
coming in from JSON here.
So we're saying this is
explicitly nullable.
Whereas Int, we say null is not okay,
if we'd had an Int in this field,
this would fail to decode.
Finally we have to deal with the fact that
email is something that we require on
the Elm side.
But which is not actually
present on the JavaScript side.
One way we could do this, which is
something we'll see in the exercise,
is there's something we
can say called hard coded.
Which says, you know what, just ignore
the JSON, always put this value in, but
we want to do something
slightly different here.
What we want to say is,
here's what to do if email is present.
And then also here's what to
do if email is not present,
we're going to provide a fallback.
And here, instead of saying required,
we say optional.
So we're saying,
we have an optional field,
called email, and if that field is
present, we expect it to be a string.
And if that string is present, then
we're going to use that as our value and
it's going to go into this
email thing right here.
However, if that value is not present,
we're going to fall back on
this default value, me@foo.com.
So because the email field is not even
present in this JSON object, that's okay.
It just means that we're going
to use this fall back and
that value is going to be what's
going to get set to User.
So between all these things we have
user_id being set the same way as before.
We have this nullable string,
which handles the possibility that
name is either null or not null.
And that corresponds to
this name field up here.
And finally we have the optional email
string, which is going to look for
a field called email.
But if it's not there,
it's going to fall back on this value.
So in that way we're able to handle
even these edge cases of JSON of null,
of fields being missing.
And still consistently decode
into either this user or
if anything went wrong
in any of these steps.
Fail the decoding and then we will handle
that the same way that we did before.